Powerful, flexible, lightweight interface to the BitPay Bitcoin Payment Gateway API.

The `ruby-bitpay-client` gem provides all the programattic tools required to implement a ruby client application for the BitPay REST API.

# Using the BitPay Ruby Client Library
## Prerequisites
You must have a BitPay merchant account to use this library.  It's free to [sign-up for a BitPay merchant account](https://bitpay.com/start).

Once you have a BitPay merchant account, you will need [a working BitPay Access Token](/api/getting-access.html) – this can be done either [via the library](#pairing) or manually in [the BitPay Dashboard](https://bitpay.com/tokens).

## Quick Start
### Installation
```bash
gem install ruby-bitpay-client
```

In your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'ruby-bitpay-client', :require => 'bitpay_client'
```

Or directly:
```ruby
require 'bitpay_client'
```

### Configuration
The bitpay client creates a cryptographically secure connection to your server by pairing an API code with keys generated by the library. The client can be initialized with pre-existing keys passed in as a pem file, or paired if initialized with a pem file and a tokens hash. Examples can be found in the cucumber step helpers.

## Pairing
Most calls to the BitPay REST API require that your client is paired with the bitpay.com server.  To pair with bitpay.com you need to have an approved merchant account.

Your client can be paired via the `pos` (point-of-sale) or `merchant` facade (or both).  The `pos` facade allows for invoices to be created.  The `merchant` facade has broader privileges to view all invoices, bills, and ledger entries, as well as to issue refunds.  Consider the level of access required when you pair your client.

### A quick note on keys

The BitPay client gem includes the BitPay KeyUtilities gem, which can be used to generate new public private key pairs which it returns in PEM format. However, there are no methods which save the keys anywhere, so it is your responsibility to store the PEM file somewhere secure.

### BitPay authentication

BitPay authentication depends on four parts:

1. An account on our servers.
1. A token shared between the client and the server.
1. A public key, shared between the client and the server.
1. A private key, held exclusively by the client.

In order to complete authentication, you have to associate your private key with a token, and associate that token with an account. Once this authentication is complete, as long as you have the private key, you never have to authenticate again. The token you created will always be associated with that private key, so any time you create a new bitpay client object with that key, it is authenticated with BitPay. This is true whether you use the ruby-client, python client, or no client at all, the key is the important thing. 

There are two ways to authenticate, from the client side or the server side. The Ruby Client supports both.

To pair from the server side, you log in to the BitPay server, navigate to dashboard/merchant/api-tokens, and create a new token. This creates a new token, which is associated with your account. It is not associated with a key, so we provide a pairing code that you can use as a one time secret to associate the token with a key. From the client side, you can use the **client.pair_pos_client(<pairing_code>)** method to associate that method with a key held by the client.

To pair from the client side, you use the client to call the /tokens endpoint on the server with no parameters. This creates a token on the server and associates that token with a public key. What it doesn't do is associate that token to an account (because we don't know what account to associate with). This call returns a pairing code, which is a one time secret that allows you to find the token you just created. In order to associate the token with an account, you log in to the BitPay server, and use the dashboard/merchant/api-tokens interface to associate the token with a specific account. And example of client side pairing is shown below.

### Pairing Programatically

If you are developing a client with built-in pairing capability, you can pair programattically using the `pair_client` method.  This method can be called in two ways:

  * `pair_client()` will perform a client-initiated pairing, and will provide a pairing code that can be entered at https://bitpay.com/dashboard/merchant/api-tokens to assign either `merchant` or `pos` facade.
  * `pair_client(pairingCode)` will complete a server-initiated pairing, when provided a pre-generated pairing code from account https://bitpay.com/dashboard/merchant/api-tokens.
  In this case, the `pos` facade will be automatically assigned.

  See Bitpay::RubyClient.pair_pos_client('pairingCode') with validating the pairingCode.
  To generate the token for the facade we should pass the facade in params to "pair_client()"

This is an example of creating a client with the BitPay toolset and pairing.

```bash
$ gem install ruby-bitpay-client
Successfully installed ruby-bitpay-client-<version specified>
1 gem installed
$ irb
3.0.0 :001 > require 'bitpay_client'
 => true
3.0.0 :002 > pem = Bitpay::RubyKeyutils.generate_pem
 => "-----BEGIN EC PRIVATE KEY-----\nMHQCAQEEIPKZ7l2xy8kR7RPZ5Y6d8XDd/aV+EbHFzOieJPJ+FvJ7oAcGBSuBBAAK\noUQDQgAEr+HBUu71w8fsM2A8Wdp4JdB5S1Zh/7HLj0y9U3QibZSyEN9VzRLHBjmn\nWUbLkRtk88fgiApuaN9a5bFIPNmh5g==\n-----END EC PRIVATE KEY-----\n"
3.0.0 :003 > client = Bitpay::RubyClient.new(api_uri: 'https://test.bitpay.com', pem: pem, insecure: true)
 => "#<Bitpay::RubyClient:0x000055c9469abef0 @pem="---... @tokens={}>"

 * Note: pass 'insecure: true' when testing locally with HTTP request

3.0.0 :006 > client.pair_client()
 =>
{"data"=>
  [{"policies"=>[{"policy"=>"id", "method"=>"inactive", "params"=>["TeyFy1z3JgfKE3RVGHLVdnUeasur8MdpeM2"]}],
    "token"=>"47UwZQXX1ZdZqrcXmmhbz4FcKWS15LbQJD2yKwfCCfD4",
    "dateCreated"=>1643348473449,
    "pairingExpiration"=>1643434873449,
    "pairingCode"=>"nN1CNCR"}]}


As described above, using the value from the `pairingCode` element, visit https://test.bitpay.com/api-tokens and search to register for the appropriate facade. That client is now paired. As previously mentioned, you must save the pem string you generated in order to use the client again.

# Fetches the token approved with the Bitpay account for a client created with unique PEM
3.0.0 :007 > client.refresh_tokens
 => {"merchant"=>"47UwZQXX1ZdZqrcXmmhbz4FcKWS15LbQJD2yKwfCCfD4"}
```

## General Usage

Optional parameters:
 * `api_uri` - specify a different api endpoint (e.g. 'https://test.bitpay.com').  Ensure no trailing slash.
 * `tokens` - pass a stored hash of bitpay API tokens
 * `user-agent` - specify a custom user-agent value
 * `debug: true` - enable HTTP request logging to $stdout
 * `insecure: true` - disable HTTPs certificate validation (for local test environments)

### Create a new bitcoin invoice

```ruby
3.0.0 :009 > invoice = client.create_invoice(price: <price>, currency: <currency>, sign_request: false, params: {facade: 'merchant'})

  ## 'sign_request: ' to be false if we want to use the features publicly.
 =>
{"url"=>"https://test.bitpay.com/invoice?id=J74wHKkScJC68nBz253VWa",
 "status"=>"new",
 ....}

```

With invoice creation, `price` and `currency` are the only required fields. If you are sending a customer from your website to make a purchase, setting `redirectURL` will redirect the customer to your website when the invoice is paid.

Response will be a hash with information on your newly created invoice. Send your customer to the `url` to complete payment:

```javascript
{
  "url": "https://bitpay.com/invoice?id=NKaqMuZWy3BAcP77RdkEEv",
  "paymentUrls": {
    "BIP21": "bitcoin:mvYRECDxKPaPHnjNz9ZxiTpbx29xYNoRy4?amount=0.3745",
    "BIP72": "bitcoin:mvYRECDxKPaPHnjNz9ZxiTpbx29xYNoRy4?amount=0.3745&r=https://bitpay.com/i/NKaqMuZWy3BAcP77RdkEEv",
    "BIP72b": "bitcoin:?r=https://bitpay.com/i/NKaqMuZWy3BAcP77RdkEEv",
    "BIP73": "https://bitpay.com/i/NKaqMuZWy3BAcP77RdkEEv"
  },
  "status": "new",
  "btcPrice": "0.3745",
  "btcDue": "0.3745",
  "price": 148,
  "currency": "USD",
  "exRates": {
    "USD": 395.20000000000005
  },
  "invoiceTime": 1415987168612,
  "expirationTime": 1415988068612,
  "currentTime": 1415987168629,
  "guid": "438e8237-fff1-483c-81b4-dc7dba28922a",
  "id": "NKaqMuZWy3BAcP77RdkEEv",
  "transactions": [

  ],
  "btcPaid": "0.0000",
  "rate": 395.2,
  "exceptionStatus": false,
  "token": "9kZgUXFb5AC6qMuLaMpP9WopbM8X2UjMhkphKKdaprRbSKgUJNE6JNTX8bGsmgxKKv",
  "buyer": {
  }
}
```

There are many options available when creating invoices, which are listed in the [BitPay API documentation](https://bitpay.com/bitcoin-payment-gateway-api).

### Get invoice status
The ruby library provides two methods for fetching an existing invoice:

```ruby
# For authorized clients with a 'merchant' or 'pos' token
invoice = client.get_invoice(id: 'PvVhgBfA7wKPWhuVC24rJo')

# For non-authenticated clients (public facade)
invoice = client.get_public_invoice(id: 'PvVhgBfA7wKPWhuVC24rJo')

# To fetch the invoice with multiple keywords as a filter given in https://bitpay.com/api/#rest-api-resources-invoices-retrieve-invoices-filtered-by-query, follow as below to send keyword required
invoice = client.get_invoice(id: 'PvVhgBfA7wKPWhuVC24rJo', params: { status: 'complete', dateStart: '2022-01-28'})
